.. title: Definition Of Terms
.. slug: definition-of-terms
.. date: 2017-12-10 21:34:08 UTC+05:30
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

**Cerebral Palsy**

Cerebral Palsy describes a group of permanent disorders of the development of
movement and posture causing activity limitation that are attributed to non-
progressive disturbances that occurred in the developing fetal or infant brain.
The motor disorders of cerebral palsy are often accompanied by disturbances of
sensation, cognition, perception, communication, behaviour, by epilepsy and by
secondary musculo skeletal problems.

**Spasticity**

Spasticity is a motor disorder characterized by muscle hypertonia characterized
by an abnormal and increased response to rapid stretch, increased on voluntary
effort and movement and occurring in disorganized fashion both in agonists and
antagonists of an intended motor act. Along with increased deep tendon reflexes
and upgoing plantar responses spasticity is part of the clinical complex
indicating an “upper motor neurone lesion” or insult to the motor cortex.

**Austistic Spectrum Disorder**

The autistic spectrum disorders are a heterogeneous group of neuro-behavioural
syndromes characterized by major impairments in basic social relationships,
abnormal language development, limited or non existent imagination and
extremely rigid patterns of behaviour. The term “spectrum” implies a range of
severity from mild, allowing close to normal functions in many areas, to the
most severe in which social function appears to be impossible, but there always
deficits in the “core triad” of socialization, communication and imagination,
and restricted behavious. There is no single cause for these disorders,
although a genetic influence is most frequently found. The disorders result
from abnormal brain development

**Mental Retardation**

A number of terms including “intellectual impairment”, “cognitive impairment”,
“mental handicap” and “learning difficulty” are used to describe individuals
whose natural reasoning abilities, “common sense” and ability to look after
themselves independently, are because of abnormalities of or early injury to
the brain, insufficient to allow independent function in society. Mental
retardation is a disability characterized by significant limitations both in
intellectual function and in adaptive behavior as expressed in conceptual
social and practical adaptive skills.

**Community Based Rehabilitation**

A strategy within community development for the rehabilitation, equalization of
opportunities and social integration of all people with disabilities.(UN
definition)

**Assistive Technology**

AT is “any item, piece of equipment, or product system, whether acquired
commercially off the shelf, modified or customized, that is used to increase,
maintain, or improve the functional capabilities of a child with a disability”
- – 20 USC 1401

Assistive technology is a generic term that includes assistive, adaptive, and
rehabilitative devices and the process used in selecting, locating, and using
them. AT promotes greater independence for people with disabilities by enabling
them to perform tasks that they were formerly unable to accomplish, or had
great difficulty accomplishing, by providing enhancements to or changed methods
of interacting with the technology needed to accomplish such tasks. Although,
Cook & Hussey (2001)[1] report this term is usually not used for rehabilitative
devices and for devices that able-bodied find useful. According to disability
advocates, technology is often created without regard to people with
disabilities, creating unnecessary barriers to hundreds of millions of people.
